NEW: Add concept of 'precompiled layouts'. (#1156)
Unity-Technologies/InputSystem: Packages/com.unity.inputsystem/Documentation~/Layouts.md

InputSystem.RegisterLayoutOverride(json);
```

## Precompiled layouts

> Building a device at runtime from an [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html) is a slow process. The layout instance itself has to be built (which may involve reflection) and then interpreted in order to put the final [`InputDevice`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputDevice.html) instance together. This process usually involves the loading of multiple [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html) instances each of which may be the result of merging multiple layouts together (if the layout involves [inheritance](#layout-inheritance) or [overrides](#layout-overrides)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a device at runtime from an [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html) is a slow process. The layout instance itself has to be built (which might involve reflection) and then interpreted in order to put the final [`InputDevice`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputDevice.html) instance together. This process usually involves the loading of multiple [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html) instances, each of which might be the result of merging multiple layouts together (if the layout involves [inheritance](#layout-inheritance) or [overrides](#layout-overrides)).
```

Author: Fixed

> You can speed this process up dramatically by "baking" the final form of a layout into a "precompiled layout". This is simply generated C# code that when run, will build the corresponding device without relying on loading and interpreting an [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html). Aside from running faster, this will also create far less garbage and will not involve C# reflection (which generally causes runtime overhead by inflating the number of objects internally kept by the C# runtime).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can speed up this process up by "baking" the final form of a layout into a "precompiled layout". A precompiled layout is generated C# code that, when run, will build the corresponding device without relying on loading and interpreting an [`InputControlLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Layouts.InputControlLayout.html). Aside from running faster, this will also create far less garbage and will not involve C# reflection (which generally causes runtime overhead by inflating the number of objects internally kept by the C# runtime).
```

Author: Fixed

>__NOTE__: Precompiled layouts must be device layouts. It is not possible to precompile the layout for an [`InputControl`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputControl.html).

### Creating a precompiled layout

> The first step in setting up a precompiled layout is to generate it. To do so, open the [Input Debugger](./Debugging.md), navigate to the layout you want to precompile within the "Layouts" branch, right-click it and select "Generate Precompiled Layout".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in setting up a precompiled layout is to generate it. To do so, open the [Input Debugger](./Debugging.md), navigate to the layout you want to precompile within the **Layouts** branch, right-click it, and select **Generate Precompiled Layout**.
```

Reviewer: Style Guide: We format UI elements with bold (more info [here](https://unity-docs.gitbook.io/style-guide/format/bold-italics-and-underline)).

Author: Fixed

![Generate Precompiled Layout](./Images/GeneratePrecompiledLayout.png)

>  You will be prompted for where to store the generated code. Pick a directory in your project and file name and click "Save".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unity will ask you where to store the generated code. Pick a directory in your project, enter a file name, and click **Save**.
```

Author: Fixed

 Once generated, you can register the precompiled layout with the Input System using [`InputSystem.RegisterPrecompiledLayout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSystem.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSystem_RegisterPrecompiledLayout__1_System_String_). The method expects a string argument containing metadata for the precompiled layout. This string is automatically emitted as a `const` inside the generated class.

 ```CSharp
 InputSystem.RegisterPrecompiledLayout<MyPrecompiledDevice>(MyPrecompiledDevice.metadata);
 ```

> >__IMPORTANT__: It is very important that this method is called with all relevant layout registrations being in the same state as at the time the layout was precompiled. There is no internal check whether the precompiled layout will still generate an identical result to the non-precompiled version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>__IMPORTANT__: When you call this method, all relevant layout registrations must be in the same state as the state they were in when the layout was precompiled. There is no internal check whether the precompiled layout still generates an identical result to the non-precompiled version.
```

> Once registered, a precompiled layout is automatically used whenever the layout that the precompiled layout is based on is instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once registered, a precompiled layout is automatically used whenever the layout it is based on is instantiated.
```

This causes the Input System to fall back to the non-precompiled version of the layout. Note also that a precompiled layout will not be used for layouts [derived](#layout-inheritance) from the layout the precompiled version is based on. In the example above, if someone derives a new layout from `MyDevice`, the precompiled version is unaffected (it will not be unregistered) but is also not used for the newly created type of device.

```CSharp
// Let's constinue from the example above and assume that sometime
// later, someone replaces the builtin button with an extended version.
InputSystem.RegisterLayout<ExtendedButtonControl>("Button");

// PrecompiledMyDevice has implicitly been removed now as the ButtonControl it uses
// has now been replaced with ExtendedButtonControl.
```

Note that you can add `#if` checks to the generated code, if needed. If you add them like in the following code snippet, the checks will be preserved even if the code is regenerated. Similarly, you can change the generated class from `public` to `internal` and the modifier will be preserved when regenerating the class.

```CSharp

> //!!DEFINES

Author: @karljj1 Looking at this now, I think this is stupid. I want the user to be able to add #ifs to the generated file but required an explicit markup with `//!!DEFINES`. I think the code should simply scan for an #if and if so, preserve it.

Author: Removed the need for an explicit `//!!DEFINES`. Just grabs an `#if` expression now if it finds one.

Once registered, a precompiled layout is automatically used whenever the layout that the precompiled layout is based on is instantiated.

```CSharp
// Let's assume you have a custom device class.
public class MyDevice : InputDevice
{
    // Setters for your control getters need to have at least `protected`
    // or `internal` access so the precompiled version can use them.
    [InputControl]
    public ButtonControl button { get; protected set; }

    // This method will *NOT* be invoked by the precompiled version. Instead, all the lookups
    // performed here will get hardcoded into the generated C# code.
    protected override void FinishSetup()
    {
        base.FinishSetup();

        button = GetChildControl<ButtonControl>("button1");
    }
}

// You register the device as a layout somewhere during startup.
InputSystem.RegisterLayout<MyDevice>();

// And you register a precompiled version of it then as well.
InputSystem.RegisterPrecompiledLayout<PrecompiledMyDevice>(PrecompiledMyDevice.metadata);

// Then the following will implicitly use the precompiled version.
InputSystem.AddDevice<MyDevice>();
```

> A precompiled layout will automatically be unregistered in the following cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A precompiled layout is automatically unregistered in the following cases:
```

* A [layout override](#layout-overrides) is applied to one of the layouts used by the precompiled Device. This also extends to [controls](Controls.md) used by the Device.
* A layout with the same name as one of the layouts used by the precompiled Device is registered (which replaces the layout already registered under the name).
* A [processor](Processors.md) is registered that replaces a processor used by the precompiled Device.

This causes the Input System to fall back to the non-precompiled version of the layout. Note also that a precompiled layout will not be used for layouts [derived](#layout-inheritance) from the layout the precompiled version is based on. In the example above, if someone derives a new layout from `MyDevice`, the precompiled version is unaffected (it will not be unregistered) but is also not used for the newly created type of device.

```CSharp

> // Let's constinue from the example above and assume that sometime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Let's continue from the example above and assume that sometime
```

> // later, someone replaces the builtin button with an extended version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// later, someone replaces the built-in button with an extended version.
```

Author: Fixed

InputSystem.RegisterLayout<ExtendedButtonControl>("Button");

> // PrecompiledMyDevice has implicitly been removed now as the ButtonControl it uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// PrecompiledMyDevice has implicitly been removed now, because the ButtonControl it uses
```

Author: Fixed

// has now been replaced with ExtendedButtonControl.
```

> Note that you can add `#if` checks to the generated code, if needed. The code generator will scan the start of an existing file for a line starting with `#if` and, if found, preserve it in newly generated code and generate a corresponding `#endif` at the end of the file. Similarly, you can change the generated class from `public` to `internal` and the modifier will be preserved when regenerating the class. Finally, you can change the namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, you can add `#if` checks to the generated code, if needed. The code generator will scan the start of an existing file for a line starting with `#if` and, if found, preserve it in newly generated code and generate a corresponding `#endif` at the end of the file. Similarly, you can change the generated class from `public` to `internal` and the modifier will be preserved when regenerating the class. Finally, you can change the namespace
```

Reviewer: The last sentence looks incomplete. Was there meant to be more there?

Author: Fixed and completed last sentence. Thanks for noticing :)

> Also note that the generated class is marked as `partial`. This means you can add additional overloads and other code by simply having a parallel, `partial` class definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated class is marked as `partial`, which means you can add additional overloads and other code by  having a parallel, `partial` class definition.
```

Author: Fixed

```CSharp
// The next line will be preserved when regenerating the precompiled layout. A
// corresponding #endif will be emitted at the end of the file.
#if UNITY_EDITOR || UNITY_STANDALONE

// If you change the namespace to a different one, the name of the namespace will be
// preserved when you regenerate the precompiled layout.
namepace MyNamespace
{

>     // If you changing `public` to `internal`, the change will be preserved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // If you change `public` to `internal`, the change will be preserved
```

Author: Fixed
